ekl  installation can be done in 2 ways
    1. Automated
    2. Manually


Now we see how to setup elk through Automation
  1. First login to the shell using the ekl instance public address.
  2. After login now give the command as sudo labauto
  3. give 13 in select tool to select the elk
  3. Now select the version you want and give that option number.
  4. It will take some time to install once the installation is done. the important thing is to copy the security
     autoconfiguration information.
     --------------------------- Security autoconfiguration information ------------------------------
     Authentication and authorization are enabled.
     TLS for the transport and HTTP layers is enabled and configured.

     The generated password for the elastic built-in superuser is : Vi6IIOEGA9n8AvyLf8oY

     If this node should join an existing cluster, you can reconfigure this with
     '/usr/share/elasticsearch/bin/elasticsearch-reconfigure-node --enrollment-token <token-here>'
     after creating an enrollment token on your existing cluster.

     You can complete the following actions at any time:

     Reset the password of the elastic built-in superuser with
     '/usr/share/elasticsearch/bin/elasticsearch-reset-password -u elastic'.

     Generate an enrollment token for Kibana instances with
      '/usr/share/elasticsearch/bin/elasticsearch-create-enrollment-token -s kibana'.

     Generate an enrollment token for Elasticsearch nodes with
     '/usr/share/elasticsearch/bin/elasticsearch-create-enrollment-token -s node'.
     -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  5. now copy and paste the ip address in the browser and we don't hve to provide any port number because it consider 80 port.
  6. now go the place where you copied and pasted the security autoconfiguration information and copy the generate
     enrollment token for kibana instance command past it in the shell command line. now it provide a data copy
     the data and paste it in the configuration page and select configure elastic once you selected it will open a
     page and ask to enter the verification code.

  7. To get the verification we have to provide the command in the shell that is present in the verification page.

  8. Now if you give that command it won't open anything so what we can do is first find the verification code file
               find / -name kibana-verification-code it will give you the file name.

  9. Now copy the file name and paste it in the shell command and it will give a verification code and give that
              verification code in the verified configuration page.

  10. Once the above thing is done now it will open elastic page and provide the credentials, you can find the
              username and password credentials in the doc which you have copied and pasted the things after installing.






  Now we see how to setup elk through Manually
    1. First login to the shell using the ekl instance public address.
    2. now go to elastic.co website there we have a rpm which is repo file and give that repo file in the command
       docs--> in Elastic Stack select installation and update guide --> Installing the Elastic Stack --> in Installation
         order select Elastic search Install Instructions ---> select install elastic search with RPM
       there we found command to install Manually
        1. give these in the command line
              rpm --import https://artifacts.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch

        2. Create a file called elasticsearch.repo in the /etc/yum.repos.d/ directory
              vim etc/yum.repos.d/elasticsearch.repo
                 paste the below content in that file and save it. to save the file press esc the give :wq the file will save

                 [elasticsearch]
                 name=Elasticsearch repository for 8.x packages
                 baseurl=https://artifacts.elastic.co/packages/8.x/yum
                 gpgcheck=1
                 gpgkey=https://artifacts.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch
                 enabled=1
                 autorefresh=1
                 type=rpm-md

        3. Now give dnf install elasticsearch -y (or) sudo install elasticsearch -y if you are not a root user then
             provide sudo in front of the command.

        4. once the installation is done the important thing we need to do is copy and paste the security autoconfiguration
            information.

        5. systemctl daemon-reload
        6. systemctl enable elasticsearch
        7. systemctl start elasticsearch
        8. once its started now give netstat -intp to check the port number
             the tcp6  contain the default port number of elastic search

        9. once the above things are completed now install kibana using the below command
                dnf install kibana -y

        10. once kibana installation is done now provide the below command
              systemctl enable kibana
              systemctl start kibana

        11. now give netstat -intp command to check the kibana, the kibana(tcp) is starting with some port number, now
             the kibana need to talk to the elastic search.now if we check the port number of kibana it listing on the
             localhost port number only it is not accessible to the outside world. now some where in the kibana configuration
             vim /etc/kibana/kibana.yml file in that file if we see the server host is connected to localhost.
           Now in place of "localhost" give these port number value "0.0.0.0" and save it

        12. Once the above thing is completed now restart the kibana
              systemctl restart kibana

        13. to check the logs provide the below command
             tail -f /var/log/kibana/kibana.log  here -f will follow the log.

        14. Now provide the netstat -inp and check the port number of tcp which is the beginning one.

        15. now take the ip address long with port number of tcp kibana and provide in the browser.it will open a page
            with configure elastic to get started.
              example: 18.208.180.218:5601 here 5601 is port number of kibana

        16. now go the place where you copied and pasted the security autoconfiguration information and copy the generate
            enrollment token for kibana instance command past it in the shell command line. now it provide a data copy
            the data and paste it in the configuration page and select configure elastic once you selected it will open a
            page and ask to enter the verification code.

        17. To get the verification we have to provide the command in the shell that is present in the verification page.

        18. Now if you give that command it won't open anything so what we can do is first find the verification code file
             find / -name kibana-verification-code it will give you the file name.

        19. Now copy the file name and paste it in the shell command and it will give a verification code and give that
            verification code in the verified configuration page.

        20. Once the above thing is done now it will open elastic page and provide the credentials, you can find the
            username and password credentials in the doc which you have copied and pasted the things after installing.